NAME: Steven Chu
EMAIL: schu92620@gmail.com
ID: 905094800

DIRECTORY CONTENTS

lab0.c - This program copies standard input to standard output. If no errors are encountered, this
program returns with exit code 0.

This program has four (optional) arguments:
	--input=filename ... to read from a specified file in place of standard input
	--output=filename ... to write to a specified file in place of standard output
	--segfault ... to force a segmentation fault
	--catch ... to register a signal handler to catch a segmentation fault

Makefile - provides shortcuts to various tasks:
	default (make) ... compiles the lab0 executable
	dist (make dist) ... generates the distribution tarball
	clean (make clean) ... deletes files created by make and make dist
	check (make check) ... performs a cursory smoke-test of the lab0 executable

smoke-test.sh - performs a cursory test of the required functionalities of the lab0 executable.
	1. Check if program copies from standard input to standard output.
	2. Check if program copies from file input to standard output.
	3. Check if program copies from standard input to file output.
	4. Check if program copies from file input to file output.
	5. Check if segmentation fault option works.
	6. Check if catch option works - and results in exit code 4.
	7. Check if invalid input handler works - and results in exit code 2.
	8. Check if invalid output handler works - and results in exit code 3.
	9. Check if invalid argument handler works - and results in exit code 1.

backtrace.png - photo showing the backtrace of the program in GDB when a segmentation fault occurred.

breakpoint.png - photo showing GDB being used to examine the null pointer used to throw a segmentation fault.

USEFUL SOURCES

I drew significantly from the following sources while working on this project:

1) https://ccle.ucla.edu/pluginfile.php/3759773/mod_resource/content/0/Week%201.pdf

	TA Tengyu Liu's discussion slides from the Friday Week 0 discussion. I mostly used these slides
	and the Linux man pages to learn about the various system calls and APIs used in this project.

2) https://devhints.io/bash
	
	This source was very helpful when it came to writing the smoke-test script. This was my first
	time writing a significant shell script with control structures, so I used this reference to
	figure out the syntax. 
